# Chapter 2. Introduction to GOCA and AFP GOCA

This chapter covers:
*   Background of Computer Graphics [GOCA-2-001]
*   Scope of GOCA [GOCA-2-002]
*   Concepts of GOCA [GOCA-2-003]

## Background

The generation of pictures by computer, called computer graphics, has been an application area for many years. However, computer graphics is no longer the specialized concern of large businesses using expensive hardware and consuming vast programming and computing resources. Applications using computer graphics are now readily available for small businesses and the home. [GOCA-2-004]

## Scope of GOCA

In general, the term computer graphics refers to the definition and representation of graphics elements used to build pictures for presentation, either on hard-copy devices such as printers and plotters, or on soft-copy devices such as vector or raster displays. Interactive computer graphics refers to the creation and manipulation of these composed pictures using end-user input devices such as a tablet, joystick, or mouse. [GOCA-2-005]

GOCA is an object architecture used to represent pictures generated by computer. This document defines the version of the GOCA architecture that is supported in Advanced Function Presentation (AFP) environments for printing and viewing. [GOCA-2-006]

Typically, pictures are built from many different kinds of primitives, such as:
*   Lines or arcs [GOCA-2-007]
*   Characters or symbols [GOCA-2-008]
*   Shaded areas or point arrays [GOCA-2-009]

Each of these primitives has its own particular set of primitive attributes, such as:
*   Line width or line type [GOCA-2-010]
*   Orientation or direction [GOCA-2-011]
*   Shading pattern or resolution [GOCA-2-012]

In addition, there is usually a set of controls, such as environment-defined defaults, that apply to all primitives. [GOCA-2-013]

GOCA is concerned with the creation and manipulation of pictures built by direct invocation of the above primitives and attributes. Thus, GOCA is restricted to the creation and modification of what is generally termed vector, or line-drawn, graphics. However, additional architectures can be built on top of GOCA for creating and manipulating more complex constructs such as graphs, histograms, and pie charts. [GOCA-2-014]

## Concepts of GOCA

GOCA effectively defines a graphics subsystem that can exist in, or be invoked by, a number of environments. Each of these controlling environments can be specialized for a particular application area. AFP GOCA is the version of GOCA used to present and interchange graphics pictures in AFP environments. See Appendix A, “Mixed Object Document Content Architecture (MO:DCA) Environment”, and Appendix B, “Intelligent Printer Data Stream (IPDS) Environment” for details of these environments. [GOCA-2-015]

---

Presentation of a graphics picture is facilitated by partitioning it into segments, which are effectively independent subpictures. The picture is defined by means of drawing orders that draw primitives, or set
attributes and controls that determine the appearance of those primitives.
The picture is defined in a Graphics Presentation Space (GPS) that is independent of the environment. The mapping of this picture onto the presentation surface of a device is defined by a descriptor . The descriptor
depends on the environment.
Introduction

---

Copyright © AFP Consortium 1997, 2017 9
