Appendix F , “Notes for IOCA Generators”.
## Compression Algorithms


## Recording Algorithms
Recording algorithms describe the format of the image data when it is first created. They describe such characteristics as the direction that the IDEs are recorded, and any boundary or formatting constraint that is placed on the image data. The compression takes place on the recorded image.
The recording algorithms that can be specified by the RECID parameter of the Image Encoding parameter are:
Value Algorithm X'01' RIDIC (Recording Image Data Inline Coding)
X'03' Bottom-to-T op X'04' Unpadded RIDIC X'FE' See the External Algorithm Specification parameter for details Other values All other values are reserved RIDIC Recording Algorithm The Recorded Image Data Inline Coding (RIDIC) recording algorithm formats the image data as a sequence of binary elements that are generated by the unidirectional raster scan operation. The scanning is from left to right (X direction) and from top to bottom (Y direction), as shown in Figure 19. There are no interlaced fields
between the parallel scan lines.
Figure 19. RIDIC Recording Algorithm X Direction .
.
.
n-2 n-1 n 1 2 3 Y Direction Each raster scan line is in multiples of eight bits. If the width of the image is not a multiple of eight, the scan line
must be padded with zeros.
If the Image Size parameter specifies a non-multiple of 8 bits, the resulting compressed image must be compressed at the next multiple of 8 bits and must be decompressed at the next multiple of 8 bits. Once decompressed, only the number of bits specified in the Image Size parameter are to be used for each scan line.
## Recording Algorithms


Bottom-to-Top Recording Algorithm The Bottom-to-T op recording algorithm formats the image data as a sequence of binary elements that are generated by the unidirectional raster scan operation. The scanning is from left to right (X direction) and from bottom to top (Y direction), as shown in Figure 20. There are no interlaced fields between the parallel scan lines.
Figure 20. Bottom-to-Top Recording Algorithm X Direction .
.
.
n n-1 n-2 3 2 1 Y Direction Each raster scan line is in multiples of 32 bits. If the width of the image is not a multiple of 32, the scan line
must be padded with zeros.
Unpadded RIDIC Recording Algorithm The Unpadded RIDIC algorithm is identical to the RIDIC recording algorithm except that raster scan lines can be any length; no padding is necessary.
## Recording Algorithms




