# Chapter 2. Introduction to IOCA
This chapter outlines:
• The rationale for IOCA
• The scope of IOCA
Background An image, in computer terminology, is an electronic representation of a picture as an array of raster data.
Image data can be generated by a computer program, or formed by electronically scanning such items as illustrations, drawings, photographs, and signatures.
The image-processing field is expanding dramatically due to advances in hardware technology. For example:
• Less expensive computer storage and memory are making the handling of larger volumes of image data
increasingly more feasible; image databases are now in widespread use.
• Faster processors and techniques such as bit slicing and hardware buffering are improving the efficiency and
flexibility of online image processing.
• Higher-resolution image devices are improving the usability of images and image applications. Images can
now be printed and displayed in greater detail than ever before.
More and more image applications—most of which involve generating, processing, presenting, and storing images—are emerging to meet the specific needs of various industries. Insurance applications often require high-volume input and single-image manipulation. Banking applications require a verification process for handwritten check endorsements and signatures, with the ability to analyze a specific part of each image.
Engineering applications might focus on design analysis systems that deal with drawings. Publishing applications might involve document creation, complex editors with image editing capabilities, and document distribution. The list of potential areas for image applications is very long and continues to grow: medicine, geology, agriculture, manufacturing, and government, to name a few.
T o support the diverse image application areas, images are encoded in a number of different formats. As the technology progresses, old formats are extended and refined and new formats are being formulated.
The Image Object Content Architecture (IOCA) has been formulated to provide a format suited for high speed printing. IOCA contains enough flexibility that a wide variety of images can be printed, but formats images in such a way that they can be printed efficiently and with minimal processing.


What is IOCA?
IOCA is an architecture that provides a consistent way to represent images, including conventions and directions for processing and interchanging image information. In other words, this architecture:
• Can be used for scanning, displaying, printing, archiving, and other I/O operations.
• Has an image description that is flexible enough to allow it to exist intact in interactive, printer, and
interchange environments that are defined by the following data stream architectures:
– Intelligent Printer Data Stream (IPDS) for printers – Mixed Object Document Content Architecture (MO:DCA)
• Allows the image to be fully described in device- and process-independent terms. Each image object is
independent of other data objects and the environment in which it exists.
• Describes images using self-defining fields; that is, each field contains a description of itself along with its
contents.
Figure 4. Images and IOCA IOCA Image Information T o a representation that is independent of environments What is IOCA?


IOCA in Image Processing Figure 5 summarizes the steps typically involved in image processing, and indicates which stages are device dependent. IOCA is involved only in Step 3, device-independent information processing. The term IOCA Process Model is used hereafter when referring to this step. The other steps are device dependent, and the interface to them is provided by the controlling environments.
Figure 5. Steps in Image Processing Step 1:
Creation Pre- Processing Device- Independent Device- Dependent Device- Dependent
Post- Processing OutputProcessing Step 2: Step 3: Step 4: Step 5:
1. Creation. An image is created by a program or an input device such as a scanner. The creation step is supported by many types of devices and technologies. The resulting image contains device-dependent information.
2. Pre-processing. Pre-processing is the gateway from the input devices. In this step, the device-dependent information is removed from the image. For example, if the image was created by scanning a document, the end-of-scan-line code is removed. After this step, the image, along with its characteristics of resolution and size, is ready to be processed.
3. Processing. The image is now processed into an interchangeable form with all device-dependent characteristics removed. In this form, it can be passed to another system or environment and interpreted consistently.
4. Post-processing. Post-processing is the gateway to applications that support output devices. The required device-control information is inserted. This step might be different for each type of device.
5. Output. This step presents the image to the user. It is controlled locally by the output device, such as a display or a printer.
IOCA in Image Processing


The IOCA Process Model IOCA uses the Image Segment as its base unit for representing an image. An Image Segment consists of image data and the parameters needed to describe that image's characteristics in a universally recognizable way.
The IOCA Process Model communicates with the controlling environment, sending and receiving Image Segments to and from them. It also takes action if irregularities are found in the IOCA Image Segments.
Figure 6 shows the relationship between the IOCA Process Model and the controlling environments that scan, display, and print IOCA Image Segments.
Figure 6. IOCA Process Model and the Controlling Environments To print To display Scanned Controlling Environment Controlling Environment
Controlling Environment IOCA Image Information IOCA Process Model Mixed Object Document Content Architecture (MO:DCA) and Intelligent Printer Data Stream (IPDS) are
examples of controlling environments.
IOCA Process Model


