# Chapter 2. Introduction to the MO:DCA Architecture

This chapter:
*   Provides a definition of the MO:DCA architecture [MODCA-2-001]
*   Describes the MO:DCA document component hierarchy [MODCA-2-002]

## What is the Mixed Object Document Content Architecture?

A mixed object document is the collection of data objects that comprise the document's content, and the resources and formatting specifications that dictate the processing functions to be performed on the content. The term "Mixed" in the MO:DCA architecture refers both to the mixture of data objects and the mixture of document constructs that comprise the document's components. A MO:DCA document can contain a mixture of presentation data objects. Each data object type has unique processing requirements. An Object Content Architecture (OCA) has been established for each data object to define its respective syntax and semantics.

MO:DCA documents can contain data and data objects governed by the following OCAs:
*   **Bar Code Object Content Architecture (BCOCA)**, which is used to describe and generate bar code symbols. [MODCA-2-003]
*   **Color Management Object Content Architecture (CMOCA)**, which is used to define resources used for color management, such as ICC profiles, tone transfer curves, and halftones. [MODCA-2-004]
*   **Font Object Content Architecture (FOCA)**, which is used to support the digital presentation of character shapes by defining their attributes, such as shape definitions, shape dimensions, and positioning information. [MODCA-2-005]
*   **Graphics Object Content Architecture for Advanced Function Presentation (AFP GOCA)**, which is used to represent pictures generated by a computer, commonly referred to as computer graphics. [MODCA-2-006]
*   **Image Object Content Architecture (IOCA)**, which is used to represent image information such as scanned pictures. [MODCA-2-007]
*   **Presentation Text Object Content Architecture (PTOCA)**, which is used to define text information. [MODCA-2-008]
*   **Metadata Object Content Architecture (MOCA)**, which is used to define metadata information. [MODCA-2-009]

MO:DCA documents can also contain or reference non-OCA data object types that are registered in the MO:DCA architecture. Such data object types may be carried in a generic MO:DCA object envelope called an object container. Examples of non-OCA data object types that can be included in MO:DCA documents are TIFF (Tag Image File Format), EPS (Encapsulated Postscript), and single-page PDF (Portable Document Format).

The MO:DCA architecture is designed to facilitate document interchange as well as document exchange. Interchange is the predictable interpretation of shared information in an environment where the characteristics of each process need not be known to all other processes. Exchange is the predictable interpretation of shared information by a family of system processes in an environment where the characteristics of each process must be known to all other processes.

The MO:DCA architecture is designed to integrate the different data object types into documents that can be interchanged as a single data stream. The MO:DCA architecture provides the data-stream structures needed to carry the data objects. It also provides syntactic and semantic rules governing their use to ensure that different applications process them in a consistent manner. Figure 4 illustrates the relationship of MO:DCA data structures to a presentation document composed of pages and data objects. [MODCA-2-010]

**Figure 4. MO:DCA Presentation Document Components**

Two forms of the MO:DCA document format were defined in 1990 and have been documented in the MO:DCA reference since that time:
*   the presentation form, called MO:DCA-P, which describes final-form documents in terms of a document structure and the mixtures of presentation objects that define page content within that structure [MODCA-2-011]
*   the “library” form, called MO:DCA-L, which only describes a mixture of presentation objects without providing document structure [MODCA-2-012]

The MO:DCA-L form was used in the IBM OS/2 product to define the Presentation Manager (PM) metafile format. These files were known as “.met” files. This format has been stable for a long time, is functionally capped, and will no longer be documented in the MO:DCA reference. Its definition is provided in the document MO:DCA-L: The OS/2 Presentation Manager Metafile (.met) Format, available at www.afpcinc.org. The MO:DCA-P format is now simply referred to as the MO:DCA format; these two terms should be considered synonymous.

MO:DCA components are defined with a syntax that consists of self-describing structures. Structured fields are the main MO:DCA structures and are used to encode MO:DCA commands. A structured field starts with an introducer that uniquely identifies the command, provides a total length for the command, and specifies additional control information such as whether padding bytes are present. The introducer is followed by up to 32,759 data bytes. Data may be encoded using fixed parameters, repeating groups, keywords, and triplets. Fixed parameters have a meaning only in the context of the structure that includes them. Repeating groups are used to specify a grouping of parameters that can appear multiple times. Keywords are self-identifying parameters that consist of a one-byte unique keyword identifier followed by a one-byte keyword value. Triplets are self-identifying parameters that contain a one-byte length, a one-byte unique triplet identifier, and up to 252 data bytes. Keywords and triplets have the same semantics wherever they are used. Together, these structures define a syntax for MO:DCA data streams that provides for orderly parsing and flexible extensibility. [MODCA-2-013]

## Organization of the Architecture

The MO:DCA definition in this document is organized into five parts:
*   Definition of the general architecture [MODCA-2-014]
*   Definition of MO:DCA interchange sets [MODCA-2-015]
*   Definition of MO:DCA function sets [MODCA-2-016]
*   Definition of MO:DCA migration functions [MODCA-2-017]
*   Table definitions and registries [MODCA-2-018]

The general architecture is defined in Chapter 1 through Chapter 6. This includes the general architecture definition for structured fields in Chapter 5, the general architecture for triplets in Chapter 6, and the general architecture for MO:DCA object structure in Chapter 4.

MO:DCA interchange sets are defined in Chapter 7. Interchange sets consist of structured field, triplet, and object structure specifications that are formal subsets of the general architecture. The purpose of interchange sets is to provide concise, complete document definitions with clear compliance rules that are agreed on and implemented by MO:DCA generators and receivers. It is strongly recommended that MO:DCA support includes compliance with an interchange set.

MO:DCA function sets are defined in Chapter 8. Function sets consist of structured field, triplet, and object structure definitions that add functionality to an interchange set. A function set is formally defined as an extension to a specific interchange set. Multiple definitions can exist for a given function set, that is, a function set can be defined to extend more than one interchange set. A function set is normally not sufficiently complex to warrant the definition of a new interchange set.

MO:DCA migration objects, structured fields, triplets, parameters, and rules for processing these structures are defined in Appendix C. These constructs may appear in MO:DCA data streams, but they are not considered to be part of the formal architecture definition and may not be supported by all MO:DCA products. [MODCA-2-019]

Architected tables, algorithms, and registries are defined in the appendices. The standard OCA color value table is defined in Appendix A. The Color Mapping Table is defined in Appendix A. The Resource Access Table (RAT) is defined in Appendix B. The MO:DCA Registry for object types and media types is defined in Appendix D. The algorithms used to calculate object identifiers (OIDs) are defined in Appendix F. [MODCA-2-020]

## Compliance with the Architecture

MO:DCA-compliant products do not necessarily support all of the structures and functions defined in this document. MO:DCA compliance may be based on document interchange, in which case a product must support one of the defined interchange sets plus optionally one or more function sets in accordance with the rules specified in “Interchange Set Compliance Requirements”. MO:DCA compliance may also be based on document exchange, in which case a product must support a subset of the general architecture and must define, in its product documentation, which MO:DCA structures and functions are supported. [MODCA-2-021]

## MO:DCA Concepts

The print file is the highest level of the MO:DCA data-stream document component hierarchy. Print files can contain multiple documents and a resource group. Documents can be made up of pages, and the pages, which are at the intermediate level, can be made up of objects. Objects are at the lowest level, and can be bar codes, graphics, images, and presentation text. The MO:DCA document component hierarchy for a document containing image, graphics, and presentation text objects is illustrated in Figure 4.

At each level of the hierarchy certain sets of MO:DCA data structures, called structured fields, are permissible. The document, pages and objects are bounded by structured fields that define their beginnings and their ends. These structured fields, called begin-end pairs, provide an envelope for the data-stream components. This feature enables a processor of the data stream that is not fully compliant with the architecture to bypass those objects that are beyond its scope, and to process the data stream to the best of its abilities.

### Print Files

A MO:DCA print file contains one or more documents to be printed. A print file may also optionally contain an external resource group, also referred to as a print file level resource group, as well as document indexes. A single Form Map is associated with each print file and is used to render that print file.

### Documents

A MO:DCA presentation document is one that has been formatted and is intended for presentation, usually on a printer or display device. A data stream containing a presentation document should produce the same document content in the same format on different printers or display devices dependent, however, on the capabilities of each of the printers or display devices. A presentation document can reference resources that are to be included as part of the document to be presented.

### Pages

Pages contain the data objects that comprise a presentation document. Figure 4 portrays the location of the page within the data-stream hierarchy. Each page has a set of data objects associated with it. Each page within a document is independent from any other page, and each must establish its own environment parameters.

The page is the level in the document component hierarchy that is used for printing or displaying a document's content. The data objects contained in the page envelope in the data stream are presented when the page is presented. Each data object has layout information associated with it that directs the placement and orientation of the data on the page. In addition, each page contains layout information that specifies the measurement units, page width, and page depth.

The presentation of a document by a presentation device is a process that consists of presenting the document's pages on a physical medium in accordance with the document's layout and formatting specifications. Examples of physical media are sides of a sheet of paper and display screens.

### Overlays

Overlays are page-like resource objects that contain data objects and that define their own environment parameters. Overlays can be included directly on the medium presentation space using a keyword on the Medium Modification Control (MMC) structured field. Such overlays are positioned at the origin of the medium presentation space and are called medium overlays. Overlays may also be included on the logical page presentation space using the Include Page Overlay (IPO) and Page Modification Control (PMC) structured fields. Such overlays are positioned at an offset from the logical page origin that is defined by the IPO and PMC and are called page overlays. Page overlays that are included with a PMC are also referred to as PMC overlays. Note that the MMC and PMC are specified in a Medium Map print control object, whereas the IPO is specified directly in the data stream.

Medium overlays and PMC overlays may be identified as Preprinted Form Overlays (PFOs). One Medium PFO (M-PFO) may be included on a sheet-side; additional M-PFOs are ignored. One PMC PFO (PMC-PFO) may be included on each page on a sheet-side; additional PMC-PFOs for that page are ignored. PFOs are always included last on a presentation space, after all other data has been applied for that presentation space, and are merged using special mixing rules; see “Mixing Rules”. For a given sheet-side, an M-PFO always overrides any PMC-PFOs. That is, if an M-PFO is specified for a sheet-side, any PMC-PFOs specified for pages on that sheet-side are ignored.

### Page Segments

Page segments are resource objects that contain data objects but that do not define their own environment parameters. Page segments can be included on the logical page presentation space or on the overlay presentation space using the Include Page Segment (IPS) structured field, and inherit the environment parameters defined by the including page or overlay. [MODCA-2-022]

## Objects

Objects contain the data that is to be presented. They also may contain environment information needed to establish the proper location and orientation for the data on the presentation surface. Objects in the data stream are bounded by delimiters that identify their type, such as graphics, image, or text. The MO:DCA architecture supports two categories of objects: data objects and resource objects. [MODCA-2-023]

## Data Objects

In general, data objects consist of data to be presented and the directives required to present it. The content of each type of data object is defined by an object architecture that specifies presentation functions that can be used within its MO:DCA coordinate space. All data objects function as equals in the MO:DCA data-stream environment. Data objects are carried as separate entities with no dependencies on the MO:DCA layout structures or on the containing data-stream environment.

The object area is the space on a page that is used to present the data object. An object area is defined by layout information, such as the object area's origin, width, depth, and orientation on the page. [MODCA-2-024]

## Resource Objects

Resource objects are named objects or named collections of objects that can be referenced from within the document. In general, the referenced resources can reside in a resource group or an external library and can be referenced repeatedly. They may be used in numerous places in a document or in several documents. They are characterized by an unchanging and often complex composition. It is inefficient, and thus undesirable, for applications to generate these objects each time they are required. Instead, the inclusion of these objects in a resource group or a library enables applications to retrieve them repeatedly as they are needed to obtain the desired presentation effect. Examples of resource objects are:
*   Fonts that support presentation text and graphics objects [MODCA-2-025]
*   Referenced data objects [MODCA-2-026]
*   Page overlays that contain corporate logos, copyright notices, or other such material [MODCA-2-027]
*   Page segments [MODCA-2-028]
*   Color Management Resources (CMRs) [MODCA-2-029]

Resource objects are also referred to as hard objects. That is, they are mapped with a Map structured field in the environment group of a form map, page, or overlay, which causes the server to retrieve the object and send it to the presentation device. The object is then referenced for inclusion at a later time. This is in contrast to soft objects, which are not mapped in an environment group and are sent to the presentation device when they are referenced within the page or overlay.

### Secondary Resource Objects

A data object that is processed as a resource may itself require additional resources for presentation. Such resources are called secondary resources. Examples of data objects and their secondary resources are:
*   An IOCA FS45 image object that references a tile resource [MODCA-2-030]
*   A PDF object that requires a custom font [MODCA-2-031]
*   An EPS object that is to be rendered with a SWOP or Euroscale color profile [MODCA-2-032]
*   An SVG file that requires a raster image [MODCA-2-033]
*   A PDF object that requires a CMR [MODCA-2-034]
*   A QR Code with Image bar code (BCOCA) object that requires a presentation data image [MODCA-2-035]

A secondary resource may be referenced explicitly from a data object, such as a IOCA tile resource; or it may be tied implicitly to the data object, such as a color profile. A secondary resource must be mapped with an MDR that carries the external identifier of the resource in an FQN triplet, whose FQN type varies:
*   FQN type X'DE' if the secondary resource is a non-presentation object [MODCA-2-036]
*   FQN type X'84' if the secondary resource is an IOCA object [MODCA-2-037]
*   FQN type X'CE' if the secondary resource is a non-OCA presentation object [MODCA-2-038]

The external identifier is used to identify the secondary resource in the data stream and in the presentation system. If there is also an explicit reference to the secondary resource from within the data object, the internal identifier is specified in an FQN type X'BE' triplet. The FQN type X'DE', X'84', or X'CE' triplet is paired with the FQN type X'BE' triplet at object include time (when the Include Object structured field that includes the data object is processed) to match up the internal and external identifiers.

See “Data Objects and Supported Secondary Resources” for more information on data objects and their secondary resources. [MODCA-2-039]

### Tertiary Resource Objects

In the case of a QR Code with Image bar code, a data object that is processed as a secondary image resource may itself require additional resources for presentation. Such additional resources are called tertiary resources. Tertiary resources are always non-presentation data objects. Examples of a secondary image resource calling out for a tertiary resource in a QR Code with Image bar code are:
*   An IOCA FS45 image object that references a tile resource [MODCA-2-040]
*   A PDF object that requires a custom font [MODCA-2-041]
*   An SVG file that requires a raster image [MODCA-2-042]
*   A PDF object that requires a CMR [MODCA-2-043]

Tertiary resources may be referenced explicitly from a secondary image resource, such as a tertiary IOCA tile resource being referenced from within an IOCA image object. A tertiary resource must be mapped with an MDR that carries the external identifier of the resource in an FQN triplet, whose FQN type varies:
*   FQN type X'EE' if the tertiary resource is a CMR [MODCA-2-044]
*   FQN type X'DE' if the tertiary resource is any other non-presentation object [MODCA-2-045]

The external identifier is used to identify the tertiary resource in the data stream and in the presentation system. All resource types that are supported as secondary resources are also supported as tertiary resources, except for resident color profiles; if a secondary resource to a QR Code with Image bar code references a resident color profile, that tertiary reference is ignored.

For tertiary resources other than CMRs, there is an explicit reference to the tertiary resource from within the secondary image resource; this internal identifier is specified in an FQN type X'BE' triplet. The FQN type X'DE' triplet is paired with the FQN type X'BE' triplet at object include time (when the Include Object structured field that includes the QR Code with Image bar code is processed) to match up the internal and external identifiers.

For tertiary CMR resources, the internal identifier of the secondary image resource from within the bar code is specified in an FQN type X'BE' triplet. The FQN type X'EE' triplet for the tertiary CMR is paired with the FQN type X'BE' triplet for the secondary image resource at object include time (when the Include Object structured field that includes the QR Code with Image bar code is processed) to match up the CMR with the secondary image resource with which it is associated.

### Multi-page Resource Objects

A resource object may be a file that contains multiple pages or paginated objects for presentation. Such an object is appropriately characterized in the Object Registry. That is, it is registered with an encoded object-type OID that identifies it as a file that may contain multiple pages or paginated objects. When a multi-page file is referenced in the data stream with a structured field like an Include Object (IOB), it must be indexed to select only a single paginated object for presentation. Similarly, when a multi-page file is carried in a container that is specified directly within a page or overlay, the Container Data Descriptor (CDD) structured field must select a single paginated object for presentation. Examples of multi-page resource objects are PDF files that contain multiple pages and TIFF files that contain multiple paginated image objects.

*   **Architecture Note:** When a page, such as a PDF page, or a paginated object is included on a MO:DCA page, it becomes a data object on that MO:DCA page and is no longer considered a “page”. That is, it is not subject to MO:DCA page level functions such as page level indexing. [MODCA-2-046]
*   **Implementation Note:** When a resource-collection application processes multi-page resource objects, it may choose to collect the complete file, not just the pages in the file that are actually selected for presentation.

### Resource Object Mapping

The MO:DCA architecture defines Map structured fields for objects that are to be processed as resource objects. Examples are the Map Page Overlay (MPO), Map Page Segment (MPS), Map Coded Font (MCF), and Map Data Resource (MDR) structured fields. Map structured fields are specified in environment groups and indicate to the presentation server that the referenced object is to be processed as a resource object and will be required for presentation. They may also provide additional information, such as a mapping of the resource reference to a local identifier for the resource. The scope of the environment determines the scope of the mapping. For example, if a resource is mapped in the Active Environment Group (AEG) for a page, the scope of the mapping is the page. Any object that is to be treated as a resource must be mapped. For some objects like page segments, IOCA objects, and non-OCA data objects, treating the object as a resource is optional. Therefore for these objects, the mapping is optional. If a mapping is specified, the object is sent to the presentation device and may be used multiple times via an include command. In that case, the object is sometimes called a hard object. If a mapping is not specified, the object is sent to the presentation device as part of the page or overlay, and is sometimes called a soft object.

*   **Note:** To optimize print performance, it is strongly recommended that the same encoding scheme be used for a resource reference wherever in a print file that resource reference is specified. That is, the encoding scheme used for the resource include, the resource map, and the resource wrapper should be the same.

### Preloading and Preprocessing Resource Objects

The Resource Environment Group (REG) allows preloading of complex resources before printing for the first page is started. This can avoid device underruns that might occur if the resource downloading takes place between pages.

Resource preprocessing is an extension of the resource preload concept. It can be used with objects that have a long rasterization time, and causes this rasterization to be done after the resource is preloaded, but before printing of the first page is started. This can avoid device underruns that might occur if such rasterization takes place between pages. Examples of resource objects that might benefit from resource preprocessing are:
*   Large IOCA FS45 image objects that need to be rotated, scaled, or trimmed [MODCA-2-047]
*   Complex EPS and PDF objects [MODCA-2-048]

The penalty for underrunning a device is dependent on the device characteristics. For example, on a cut-sheet printer the penalty is normally a larger time delay between page printing, which may be acceptable. On a continuous-forms printer that can backhitch and recover from an underrun, the penalty is normally a loss of throughput and possibly increased printer maintenance. On a continuous-forms printer that cannot backhitch, the penalty is most severe in that unwanted blank sheets are generated during the underrun. These blank sheets must be accounted for and discarded by the post-processing system.

Resource preloading and preprocessing does come at a cost. The undesirable effect of resource preloading and preprocessing is that the time to first print is increased. To achieve optimum throughput, an application should be tuned to preload and preprocess only those resources whose downloading and processing between pages would cause an unacceptable device underrun. [MODCA-2-049]

## Object Containers

An object container is an envelope for object data. The object data may or may not be defined by an AFP architecture. The container consists of a mandatory Begin/End structured field pair, an optional Object Environment Group (OEG), and mandatory Object Container Data (OCD) structured fields. [MODCA-2-050]

The Begin structured field specifies information about the object data such as object-type identifier, class, type, level, and structure, so that a MO:DCA receiver can determine whether it is an object that can be processed given its capabilities. The OCD structured fields are used to carry the object data.

If the object is to be carried in MO:DCA resource groups and interchanged, it must at a minimum be enveloped by a Begin/End pair, the Object Classification (X'10') triplet on the Begin structured field must specify the registered object-type identifier (encoded object-type OID) for the object data format, and all object data must be partitioned into OCDs. If the object container is to appear directly in a page or overlay, the container must be structured in accordance with the MO:DCA syntax for data objects supported directly in pages and overlays, such as IOCA, GOCA, and BCOCA objects. For a definition of this structure, see “Object Containers”. Object containers can be included indirectly by name in a document using the Include Object (IOB) structured field.

If the object data is traditional time-invariant presentation data, it must be paginated, that is the presentation space within which the object data is presented must be restricted to a single page. However, the object data within the container is not constrained to be traditional presentation object data. Examples of presentation object data that can be carried in an object container are image objects in TIFF (Tag Image File Format), PCX (Paintbrush Picture Format), and DIB (Device Independent Bitmap) format. Examples of non-presentation object data that can be carried in an object container are COM Set-up Files, Color Mapping Tables, TrueType and OpenType fonts, and Color Management Resources (CMRs).

## Environment Groups

An environment group in the data stream is used to carry layout information and to identify mappings to resources for resource management. Environment groups can be specified at the object, page, or document level. An environment group consists of a set of MO:DCA structured fields enveloped in a begin-end pair.

### Document Environment Groups

A Document Environment Group may be associated with a Form Map print control object. The document environment group contains presentation specifications such as resource mappings and medium information that apply to all Medium Maps in the Form Map. The scope of a document environment group is the scope of its containing Form Map.

### Resource Environment Groups

A Resource Environment Group (REG) is associated with a document or a group of pages in a document. It is contained in the document's begin-end envelope in the data stream. The REG is used to identify complex resources, such as high-resolution color images, that need to be downloaded to the presentation device before the pages that follow are processed. The scope of a REG is the pages that follow, up to the next REG (which is a complete replacement for the current REG) or the end of the document, whichever occurs first. Specification of a REG is optional. Identifying a resource in a REG does not remove the need to map that resource in the environment groups for the pages and objects that use the resource.

### Active Environment Groups

An Active Environment Group (AEG) is associated with each page, and is contained in the page's begin-end envelope in the data stream. Figure 4 depicts the relationship of the active environment group to the page. The active environment group contains layout and formatting information that defines the measurement units and size of the page, and may contain resource information. Any objects that are required for page presentation and that are to be treated as resource objects must be mapped with a map structured field in the AEG. The scope of an active environment group is the scope of its containing page or overlay. In many cases the information contained in an active environment group can be inherited by objects contained in the page. See “Default Values” for a discussion of defaults and inheritance. [MODCA-2-051]

### Object Environment Groups

An Object Environment Group (OEG) may be associated with an object and is contained within the object's begin-end envelope. Figure 4 depicts the relationship of the object environment group to its corresponding object. The object environment group defines the object's origin and orientation on the page, and can contain resource information.

Any objects that are required for object presentation and that are to be treated as resource objects must be mapped using a map structured field in the OEG.

*   **Application Note:** For print server resource management, any mapping specified in the OEG for an object must also be specified in the AEG for the page or overlay that includes the object. This is sometimes referred to as factoring the resource mapping from OEG to AEG.

The scope of an object environment group is the scope of its containing object. An application that creates a data-stream document may omit some of the parameters normally contained in the object environment group, or it may specify that one or more default values are to be used. The values to be used may be:
*   Inherited from the active environment group on the current page [MODCA-2-052]
*   Supplied by default values defined by the MO:DCA architecture [MODCA-2-053]
*   Supplied by default values defined by the application [MODCA-2-054]

See “Default Values” for a discussion of defaults and inheritance. [MODCA-2-055]

## Resource Groups

A resource group is used in the data stream to contain resources during transmission. The resources can be referenced or included at other locations within the data stream.

Resource groups can exist at the print file level. The retired IS/2 interchange set also allows resource groups to exist at the page level. A resource group has the same scope as its container. That is, the contents of the resource group are available for referencing until the containing component is ended. For example, when a resource group is contained within a print file, the contents of the resource group are available for referencing only within that print file. Once the end of the print file is encountered, the resources contained within that resource group are no longer available.

Although the MO:DCA architecture has several ways of referencing a resource object, ultimately they all result in matching a referenced identifier with the identifier used for the resource object. If the resource object is within a resource group in the data stream, the resource object's identifier is specified on the Begin Resource structured field. If the resource is in an external library, the resource object's identifier is the library name associated with the object. The MO:DCA architecture does not require that the library name be the same as the identifier specified on the Begin structured field.

In addition to matching the identifier, the resource object type must also match the reference. Thus, if a reference is made to a page overlay named ABCDEF and a color attribute table named ABCDEF is encountered in the resource group, it is not considered a valid match because the Begin structured field is of the wrong type.

Although the MO:DCA architecture permits objects of different resource types to have the same identifier, it requires that objects of the same resource type within the same resource group have unique identifiers. However, there is no restriction on having multiple objects of the same resource type and identifier in multiple resource groups.

The MO:DCA architecture defines the order in which resource groups must be searched when attempting to locate a specific resource. When searching for a resource, the first resource located that satisfies the search criteria ends the search. Thus, although two different versions of the same resource type with the same name may exist in different resource groups, the MO:DCA resource scope and search rules remove any uncertainty as to which of the resources will be selected. [MODCA-2-056]

The MO:DCA search order for resources referenced within a print file is as follows:
1.  The current page level resource group, if one exists (only supported in the retired MO:DCA IS/2 [MODCA-2-057] interchange set, see “Retired Interchange Set”)
2.  The print file level resource group, if one exists [MODCA-2-058]

If no resource groups exist or if the referenced resource object is not found in any of the resource groups searched, the search is extended to an external library. The search convention does not include library access methods, since these are dependent upon the implementing system. For the formal definition of resource groups in MO:DCA data streams, see “Resource Groups”.

## Page Groups

A page group is used in the data stream to define a named, logical grouping of sequential pages. Page groups are delimited by begin-end structured fields that carry the name of the page group. Page groups are defined so that the pages that comprise the group can be referenced or processed as a single entity. Examples of page group processing are:
*   Assigning a set of common indexing attributes to the page group [MODCA-2-059]
*   Retrieving the page group from an archive system for viewing [MODCA-2-060]

## Print Control Objects

Print control objects are resource objects that contain formatting, layout, and resource-mapping information used to present the document's pages on physical media. Print control objects may be selected at the time of the print request, or they may be invoked directly from the document. There are two types of print control objects: form maps (also known as form definitions or formdefs) and medium maps. A form map print control object contains one or more medium map print control objects. Note that a medium map is also sometimes referred to as a copygroup.

## Process Elements

Process elements are document structures that facilitate particular forms of document processing. A process element is defined by a structured field and does not contain any presentation specifications, that is, it does not affect the appearance of a document when the document is presented. An example of a process element is a Tag Logical Element (TLE), which specifies object attribute information that can be used to support attribute-based document indexing and attribute-based document navigation. Another example is a Link Logical Element (LLE), which specifies a linkage from a source document component to a target document component.
